NASSAU, Bahamas — The last decade of Tiger Woods’ career has been a series of stops and starts, the golf world grasping for each and every comeback before he goes away once more. The promise of another new beginning has brought this group here, waiting patiently for a Mercedes-Benz much like the ones that have ferried the other key partners to this part of Albany Golf Course.

But then Tiger Woods just appeared, seemingly from thin air. He walked around the corner of the white tent — alone — like he was simply on his morning stroll and said, “Hey, guys,” to the waiting media. The No. 1 player in the world is in the field at this relatively obscure golf tournament in the Caribbean, as is the 2023 PGA Tour champion, two 2023 major winners and most of the rest of the biggest names in golf. But as it always does, all attention focused instead on the man currently ranked No. 1,328 in the world.

At first, as Tiger Woods sat down for his annual press conference to preview the Hero World Challenge — a no-cut, limited-field event he hosts for himself and his PGA Tour buddies — and discuss the state of Tiger Woods, he looked just like the 15-time major champion that he is. But as the conversation unfolded, the reality of the new person in front of us became clear. Here was Tiger Woods, PGA Tour policy board member. Tiger Woods, the co-founder of a new golf league. Tiger Woods the investor, the restaurateur, the course designer. Tiger Woods, the 47-year-old legend transitioning toward and becoming the authoritative, senior presence of a sport in crisis.

“Don’t say senior,” Woods quipped. “I’m not there yet. I’ve got a couple more years.”

Woods is also a golfer, again. And he plans to keep playing for a while, saying his right ankle is strong enough to allow him to walk 18 holes without pain following his post-Masters subtalar fusion surgery. He even hinted at playing a once-a-month schedule in 2024, which would include all four majors. But very little about Woods’ focus Tuesday was on his playing ability and future career, joking, “I’m just as curious as all of you with what’s going to happen. I haven’t done this in a while.”

His latest comeback was the secondary storyline, the focus instead on the future of the PGA Tour and men’s professional golf. He was a politician/executive, talking confidently about each and every issue for the PGA Tour. He answered questions about the status of the Public Investment Fund of Saudi Arabia negotiations with the same conviction as if PGA Tour commissioner Jay Monahan was saying it. Maybe more authority, wielding his power around three different times to say Monahan making deals with the PIF without the players input “can’t happen again.”